.Dd April 20, 2011
.Dt TWEET 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tweet
.Nd send a twitter update
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hSt
.Op Fl B Ar user
.Op Fl F Ar user
.Op Fl b Ar user
.Op Fl d Ar id
.Op Fl f Ar user
.Op Fl r Ar id
.Fl u Ar user
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a very simple tool to send a twitter update to the given account -
nothing else.
The message to send is read from STDIN; the useraccount to update needs to
be configured in the file ~/.tweetrc.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width u_user_
.It Fl B Ar user
Unblock the given
.Ar user .
Can be given multiple times to unblock multiple users.
.It Fl F Ar user
Unfollow the given
.Ar user .
Can be given multiple times to unfollow multiple users.
.It Fl S
Do not shorten URLs.
By default,
.Nm
will shorten URLs via is.gd.
.It Fl b Ar user
Block the given
.Ar user .
Can be given multiple times to block multiple users.
.It Fl d Ar id
Delete the given message.
Can be given multiple times to retweet multiple messages.
.It Fl h
Print a short usage statement and exit.
.It Fl f Ar user
Follow the given
.Ar user .
Can be given multiple times to follow multiple users.
.It Fl r Ar id
Retweet the tweet with the given
.Ar id .
Can be given multiple times to retweet multiple messages.
.It Fl t
Truncate messages that are too long.
.It Fl u Ar user
Update the given account.
.El
.Sh DETAILS
.Nm
requires you to specify the username of the twitter account to which to
post the update.
After that, it will read a single line of text from STDIN.
Unless
.Fl S
is given,
.Nm
will take any URLs found in that message and shorten them using the is.gd
URL shortening service.
.Pp
If the configuration file ~/.tweetrc contains information for exactly one
username, then
.Nm
will update that user's status.
If the file does not contain information for the user given on the
command-line, then
.Nm
will attempt to retrieve the access information for that account and ask
the user to update the configuration file.
.Pp
If the resulting message contains 140 or fewer characters,
.Nm
will post the message directly, otherwise, it will complain and exit
(unless the
.Fl t
flag is given).
.Pp
If the
.Fl r
flag is given,
.Nm
will not read anything from STDIN and simply retweet the messages with the
given ID(s).
.Sh TWITTER AUTHORIZATION
.Nm
uses OAuth for authentication with Twitter.
This means that in order to run the application, it needs a so-called
"consumer key" and "consumer secret".
These are retrieved by registering an application with Twitter.
.Pp
Now for hopefully obvious reasons it's undesirable for an application to
be distributed with its own key and secret; unfortunately that means that
anybody wishing to run this tool would have to get their own consumer
secret and key.
.Pp
Hence, if you wish to run this tool, please go to
http://dev.twitter.com/apps/new and register a new client.
Then store the key and secret in the configuration file (see below).
.Sh CONFIGURATION FILE
.Nm
looks for user access information in ~/.tweetrc.
It will ignore all lines except for lines matching the patterns
<user>_key=<key> and <user>_secret=<key>.
Those values need to be the access credentials created via OAuth (which
.Nm
will generate for you and write to the file if not present for the given
user).
.Pp
In addition to these,
.Nm
also needs its own api credentials.
These are stored as (literally) "<api>_key" and "<api>_secret" (ie the
username is "<api>", including the <>).
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@netmeister.org
in January 2011.
.Sh BUGS
Please report bugs and feature requests to the author.
